**1.3 Overview of computation of Mountain Green Cover Index** 
--------------------------------------------------------------

1.3.1 Planimetric area calculation vs Real surface area calculation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To improve the accuracy of the mountain green cover index calculation a
decision has been made by FAO to calculate area using the standard
planimetric area and an additional real surface area. The real surface
area takes into account the third dimension of mountain surfaces
(Jenness 2004), giving a better and more accurate estimate of the true
mountain area in a country (Bian et al., 2020). For the purposes of the
MGCI, elevation data is used to calculate the real surface area
following the triangulation method developed by Jenness (2004).

|image0|

1.3.2 Disaggregation and standardised reporting tables 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The results of the MGCI are output to standard reporting tables in
tables using the following fields:

|image1|

Three levels of reporting are required

1) Aggregated mountain green cover Index by Kapos mountain class

|image2|

1) Area of mountain and area of green cover area within each Kapos
   mountain class

|image3|

1) Area of mountain and green cover within each LULC class area and
   Kapos mountain class

|image4|

1.4 Potential / known limitations of current methodology
--------------------------------------------------------

The indicator can be calculated using freely available Earth Observation
data and simple GIS operations that can be processed in free and open
source software (FOSS) GIS. Potential limitations of the above described
methodology are related mainly to the quality of the land cover data.
The ESA CCI land cover maps are currently available at 300 meter
resolution which limits their applicability in the monitoring of small
and highly heterogeneous landscapes. Therefore, if countries have
national land cover maps of higher spatial resolution and comparable or
better quality, FAO advises using them, following the same methodology
presented here, for the generation of MGCI values.

Regarding the interpretation of the indicator, although in the great
majority of cases the desired direction is an increase in green mountain
cover which reflects restriction of damage to natural ecosystems and
possibly even the expansion of forest, shrubland and grasslands through
conservation efforts, in more limited cases, an increase in the
indicator value in high elevation classes may also signify the
encroachment of vegetation on areas previously covered by glaciers or
other permanent or semi-permanent ice or snow layers, as a result of
global warming due to climate change. Such a change can be tracked with
the current methodology and flagged accordingly at the level of
disaggregated data by land cover type and elevation class, to
distinguish this case from the general desired trend of increasing
mountain green cover.
